KB article with opensearch documentation (#2572)
18F/cg-site: _kbarticles/2024-12-06-migrating-opensearch.md

    * "Check for existing objects"
    * "Request action on conflict"
  * The click the "Import" button, as show below: ![Screenshot of Import saved objects, with selections as described]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/content/opensearch-import-saved-objects.png)
  * If the import results in an "Overwrite index-pattern" dialog, you will likely want to "Skip" the overwrite: ![Screenshot of Overwrite index-pattern with "Skip" selected]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/content/opensearch-import-overwrite-dialog.png)
  * When the import is complete, click "Done"

### Recovering Saved Searches and Visualizations after Kibana decomissioning

If you missed migrating a Saved Object
from Kibana to OpenSearch, and Kibana is no longer available,
please contact [Cloud.gov Support](mailto:support@cloud.gov).
We have saved all customer objects and can recover those for you.

## User interface changes

The screenshot below show some of the major changes to the user interfaces, such as:
1. The drop down menus have moved from the upper left to the upper right
2. The "Top 5 values" for a field view is now an option to the right of the field, instead of a double-click

> 3. There are a lot more values gathered for container metrics

Reviewer: This is true, but it's not a user interface change

![Screenshot comparing Kibana to OpenSearch]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/content/opensearch-ui-differences.png)

## Key system differences

The Cloud.gov team has implemented OpenSearch to deliver a number of benefits to our customers. Among these are:

* Twelve months of live access to system logs, in alignment with [M-21-31](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/M-21-31-Improving-the-Federal-Governments-Investigative-and-Remediation-Capabilities-Related-to-Cybersecurity-Incidents.pdf).
* Definitions of saved searches and visualizations are now isolated by OpenSearch tenants that correspond to Cloud.gov organizations.
  * You no longer need to worry about choosing a globally unique name.
  * If you share the same saved object across multiple orgs, you will need to import it into each of your orgs.

> * Better handling of large log messages. Both Kibana/ELK and OpenSearch have a 32kb limit on message size. The older system dropped such messages from Kibana (although they were still retained in cold storage), the newer system keeps the first 32kb and discards the rest

Reviewer: Currently we're only truncating JSON messages that are over 32KB, but we probably should do it for all messages

  * Truncated messages are tagged with `_messagetrimmed`. 

>   * Extremely large log messages (over 1Gb) are trimmed and tagged `_logtrimmed` -- such message are probably indicative of a coding error in your application.

Reviewer: I think it's actually 1 MB:

https://github.com/cloud-gov/opensearch-boshrelease/blob/f13d32969626640343411670326e031910a98d0e/jobs/ingestor_syslog/spec#L152

Author: I thought 1Gb sounded high, so I must have mis-heard Jason. Fixing...

  * You can search for such messages with a filter of `@logs is one of "_messagetrimmed", "_logtrimmed"`, as shown here
  ![Screenshot from OpenSearch edit filter with settings as described above]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/images/content/opensearch-logtrimmed.png)

> * AWS Brokered Service Logs (Beta): If your Cloud.gov organization had already arranged Cloudwatch ingest of RDS database logs, then you can filter for those logs with the filter `@version: 1`. Most databases, as of December 2024, are not yet shipped to Cloudwatch and OpenSearch.
>   * Cloud.gov will be expanding the availability and features of RDS logs, and other brokered services, in 2025. This is a [beta feature]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/services/intro/#support-status) and subject to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AWS Brokered Service Logs (Beta): If your Cloud.gov organization had already worked with Cloud.gov support to enable publishing of your RDS database logs to Cloudwatch, then you can search for those logs with the filter `@version: 1`. Most databases, as of December 2024, are not yet publishing their logs to CloudWatch and thus will not appear in OpenSearch.
  * Cloud.gov will be expanding the availability of logs from other brokered services in 2025. This is a [beta feature]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/services/intro/#support-status) and subject to change.
  * Cloud.gov is working to make enabling publishing of RDS database logs to CloudWatch a self-service feature of the [database broker]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/services/relational-database.md), but there is no ETA yet for delivery of this feature.
```

---
layout: post
title: "Migrating to the OpenSearch Dashboard for Cloud.gov logs"
date: December 6, 2024
excerpt: Changes to expect in our logging system in December 2024

---

> ## What's Changing in December 2024

Reviewer: Since the title of the post ("Migrating to the OpenSearch Dashboard for Cloud.gov log") renders as second-level heading, for semantics it could make sense to render these as third level headings and so on, but not a blocking suggestion
